# Detection and Analysis of Abnormal Light Bands on Rail surface based on deep learning
# The abnormal detection of rail light band is one of the important methods to judge whether the wheel-rail condition is in good state. The traditional detection methods are all based on manual inspection. There are problems of missed detection and miscarriage of justice. New automatic detection and analysis method is needed to partially replace the traditional manual way. This paper proposes an anomaly detection method of rail light belt based on deep learning. We put the preprocessed image into a fine-tuned convolutional neural network Resnet18 to extract partial levels of features for the classification of rail surface light band anomalies. The output of the convolutional neural network is divided into four types: normal light band, uneven light band, corrugation and surface abrasion. The classification performance of the network is improved by data enhancement and parameter fine-tuning. The experimental results show that the accuracy of the network is 98.63% and the F1-score score is 97.45% for the above four types of rail surface images which show the recognition effect is good. Finally, two traditional machine learning methods commonly used in the research field, Naive Bayes Classifier (NBC) and Back Propagation Artificial Neural Network (BPANN), are selected for comparative test. The experimental results show that deep learning method has higher scores in accuracy, precession, recall rate and F1-score. It verifies the effectiveness and advancement of deep learning method.
